[SOFT PIANO]
- My dad loved money.
I can't say he loved me.
He did, in his way, I suppose.
Later in life.
he actually asked me once--
much later-- "Do you think
all children need love?"
And I said, "Yes, dad, I do
think all children need love.
And he said, "That's
a new concept to me."
And I thought, how isolated
from your own feelings
and your own heart
do you have to be
to not know that every
child needs to be loved?
And I can't say he
was a very loving man.
He didn't think about it.
It wasn't on his radar.
It wasn't something
he aspired to.
He tended to put
away, push away,
things like that he
called touchy-feely.
And there was no
hugging in my family.
I cannot remember
him ever hugging me.
I cannot remember any affection
between him and my mother.
I cannot remember him
ever hugging my sisters.
So he was a pretty intact guy.
He held everything in.
And his energy was focused
on making money and selling
ice cream and making flavors.
And that was his form of
expression and pretty much
his only one.
I very, very often
during my childhood
would ask my dad to tell me
stories about his childhood.
What was your dad like?
Because his dad died when I
was one, so I never met him.
What was my grandfather like?
What was your dad like?
What happened during
your childhood?
What did you like doing?
What was exciting to you?
You know, whatever
you want to tell me.
And he would always say, "Why do
you have to analyze everything?"
He would say, "That's in
the past where it belongs."
He would say, "I don't
want to talk about it.
Why do you have to
bring that up again?"
And I know very, very
little about his childhood,
despite asking
hundreds of times.
Because I felt I needed to know.
I felt he needed to tell me.
I felt he needed to know, but.
I couldn't get to first
base with him on this.
He just did not want
to talk about it.
I gathered, though.
I didn't know his father ever.
I knew his mother.
And she was a
pretty rigid person,
authoritarian, demanding, pushy,
and somewhat narcissistic.
So it was hard for me to
picture him being loved by her.
I never saw any
affection between them.
I saw he took care
of her financially.
He did his duty in that respect.
But I never saw
affection between them.
I saw her angry at him a number
of times, and I saw him cower.
And that was interesting to me
because he was a big guy, 6' 1",
maybe 180, 190, 200 pounds.
And she wasn't.
She was small.
And she was old, at least
from my perspective.
She was my grandmother.
And I was used to him being
in charge of everything.
He was in charge of our family.
He was the patriarch.
At the business, my
god, he was Mr. Robbins
to all the employees.
He called them by
their first names.
He was in command.
And he took command, in a way.
He was a leader.
He really was in charge.
So I was used to him being
the boss, the one who
made the rules, enforced
them, and made things happen.
And then I saw him
with his mother.
And she'd start
complaining about something
and she'd raise her voice,
and he'd just kind of shrink.
And he'd look like a little
boy to me, a hurt little boy.
And I thought, there's
a history to this.
He's not that hurt just
because of what she just said.
There's some backstory here.
There's some background
here in their relationship,
in his experiences
during his childhood,
but he wouldn't talk about it.
And I always experienced
that as a loss for me
that I did not get to
know very much at all
about my dad's childhood.
I can only speculate.
I can surmise.
I can put things that little
bits that I know together.
One example of how disconnected
my dad was from his emotions
and his heart was that when
his three children were born,
in each case, he arranged
consciously and intentionally--
and he spoke of this proudly--
to be out of town on business
when my mom went into labor.
He not only didn't want to
be in the hospital with her.
He didn't want to
be in the same city.
And he said the
reason was that he
didn't want to get sucked into
it in case something went wrong.
So to me, I see two things.
One, his incredible one-pointed
focus on his business.
That was his priority number
one, two, three, four, five,
and six.
His children weren't
and his wife wasn't.
And I also see the
fear of intimacy,
the fear of being present.
Sure, there's pain in labor.
There is the possibility that
something could go wrong.
Another man might have
said, oh, my god, something
could go wrong.
I want to be there in case
it does, to be with my wife
if something happens that's
difficult or challenging or
painful or God forbid,
worse than that.
I want to be there.
But that wasn't his way.
He used his money.
He used all of his
resources and his powers
to distance himself
from his own feelings,
from anything that was
intimate or that required love.
And he was a doer.
He got things done.
He gave orders.
He knew how to do that.
He liked being in control.
And I do, too.
I think most of us
like being in control.
But it's kind of an illusion.
We aren't as in control as
we like to think we are.
And I think he sensed
that if he was present,
even in the hospital--
it's just in the hospital--
when my mother gave birth
to one of their children,
he wouldn't be in control.
And I don't think he wanted
anything to do with that.
And I often think of my mother
going through childbirth.
This was before the day
of conscious childbirth.
She was drugged
heavily and all that.
But she went through it with
him out of town each time.
And although she never talked
about this that I know of,
I wonder what that did to her.
I think a woman in labor needs
emotional support of every kind.
Her sisters, if there's
loving connections,
her friends, if they're
loving, intimate connections,
her husband, the
father of her children,
if there's a loving
connection, should
be there to support, to
celebrate the life that's
coming forth, to be there
for the pain, the struggle,
the effort, the
labor, the difficulty,
to be in solidarity with her.
And I think it's a terrible
loss when that doesn't happen.
But for my dad,
that was his choice.
For my dad, that was
his way of maintaining
his emotional safety.
That was the way he felt
safest, more in control, best.
And so he made that
choice for himself.
And I don't think he
had any awareness at all
because I heard him talk
about this with some pride.
Like, wasn't that smart of me?
And I don't think
he had it never
occurred to him that my mom
might have wanted him there,
needed him there.
She didn't say that.
But I think it was true anyway.
And I think that if
fathers were more present
for the birth of their children,
we'd have stronger families,
we'd have stronger father-son,
father-daughter relationships.
We'd have more respect
for the feminine.
for what birth is.
And I think we'd be
a healthier society.
If we're going to create a more
compassionate world, a more
caring world, it starts with
the way we treat our children.
It starts at childbirth,
maybe even before childbirth,
during pregnancy.
It starts with how we work
with the pain we carry.
Because hurt people hurt others.
And if we've been hurt,
we have to deal with that.
We have to bring
compassion to our own pain,
to our own anguish, to our own
fear, to our own self-hatred,
and find a way to live with
it with compassion and caring
so that we don't perpetuate the
cycle of violence and distress
and pain.
And that's hard to do.
And some of us succeed
more than others.
in one area of our life
and not in another.
But we're working on it.
And I think it's really
important that we as individuals
work on that so that
our impact on the world
can be as positive and
beautiful as possible.